.TH BIBTOOL 1 local
.SH NAME
BibTool \- BibTeX file manipulation tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bibtool
[options] [files]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual is not meant to be exhaustive.
The complete documentation for
.B BibTool
can be found in the manual
.IR "BibTool: A Tool to Manipulate BibTeX files" .
BibTeX provides an easy to use means to integrate citations and
bibliographies into LaTeX documents. But the user is left alone with
the management of the BibTeX files.
.B BibTool
is intended to fill this gap.
.B BibTool
allows the  manipulation of BibTeX files which goes
beyond the possibilities - and intentions - of BibTeX.
.PP
.B BibTool
manipulates BibTeX database files through
the command line front\-end
.B bibtool
which accepts numerous options.
Modifications are performed through
resource instructions
that allow the modification of the various internal parameters
determining the behavior of 
.BR BibTool ;
resource instructions can be grouped in resource files.
The original
.B BibTool
distribtion contains a sufficient set of resource file samples
to perform basic, relevant manipulations.
.SH OPTIONS
.B bibtool
accepts the following options.
.SS "Resource files"
.TP
\fB\-R\fR
Immediately evaluate the instructions from the default resource file.
.TP
.BI \fB\-r\  rsc_file
Immediately evaluate the instructions from the resource file
.IR rsc_file .
.TP
.BI \fB\-\-\  rsc_cmd
Evaluate the resource instruction
.IR rsc_cmd .
.SS "Input file"
.TP
.BI \fB\-i\  bib_file
Add the BibTeX database file
.IR bib_file
to the list of input files.
If \fB\-i\fR omitted the file name may not start with a \-.
If absent stdin is taken to read from.
.\"Multiple input files may be given.
Input files should follow the
.BR bibtex (1)
conventions.
.SS "Output file"
.TP
.BI \fB\-o\  output_file
Direct output to the file
.IR output_file .
If absent the output is directed to stdout.
.SS "Status reporting"
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Suppress warnings. Errors can not be suppressed.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Enable informative messages on the activities of BibTool.
.SS "Sorting"
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
Enable sorting of entries.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR
Enable sorting of entries in reverse order.
.TP
.BI \fB\-A\  type
Determine key disambuguation;
.IR type
in 0, a, A.
.SS "Selecting items"
.TP
.BI \fB\-x\  aux_file
Extract the entries from the auxiliary
.RI ( .aux )
.\".BR latex (1)
LaTeX
.IR aux_file
file.
.TP
.BI \fB\-X\  regex
Select certain entries according to the regular expression
.IR regex .
.TP
\fB\-c\fR
Turn on the additional selection of crossreferenced entries.
.SS "Key generation"
.TP
.BI \fB\-f\  key_format
Set the specification for key generation to
.IR key_format .
.TP
\fB\-F\fR
Turn on key generation.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR
Generate short format keys.
.TP
\fB\-K\fR
Generate long format keys.
.SS "Semantic checks"
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Find and mark (or delete) entries with identical sort keys.
.SS "Strings/Macros"
.TP
.BI \fB\-m\  mac_file
Write the macro definitions to the file
.IR mac_file
(\- is stdout).
.TP
.BI \fB\-M\  mac_file
Write the used macro definitions to the file
.IR mac_file
(\- is stdout).
.SS "Getting help"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Print short help and exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
Print version and exit.
.SS "Statistics"
.TP
\fB\-#\fR
Print statistics about all known entry types (long).
.TP
\fB\-@\fR
Print statistics about the used entry types only (short).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BIBINPUTS
Search path for BibTeX database
.RI ( .bib )
files.
.TP
.B BIBTOOL
Search path for BibTool resource
.RI ( .rsc )
files.
.TP
.B BIBTOOLRSC
List of resource file names separated by colon.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ./.bibtoolrsc
The default current directory
.B BibTool
resource file.
.TP
.I ~/.bibtoolrsc
The default individual
.B BibTool
resource file.
.TP
.I
/usr/local/lib/BibTool/*.rsc
The BibTool resource files included in the original distribution.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR bibtex (1),
.IR latex (1),
.IR tex (1)
.br
The
.IR "BibTool Manual" ,
included as the file
.B bibtool.tex
in the
.I BibTool
source distribution.  This file contains a complete and up-to-date
documentation of 
.BR BibTool .
.SH BUGS
Some arrays are allocated statically which may result in an overflow.
.br
Most memory is allocated but not returned to the OS. A garbage collection
algorithm might be integrated in a future release.
.br
It is very likely that this man page is out of date.
This man page is updated only occasionally.
For complete, current documentation, refer to the manual
.IR "BibTool: A Tool to Manipulate BibTeX files"
which is made from the LaTeX source file
.BR bibtool.tex .
.SH AUTHOR
BibTool is designed and maintained by Gerd Neugebauer.
.\".SH COPYRIGHT
.\"Copyright (C) 1996\-2012 Gerd Neugebauer <gene@gerd-neugebauer.de>
